---
title: "What To Wear To A Massage?"
date: "2023-05-11 20:10:50"
slug: "what-to-wear-to-a-massage"
description: ""
seoTitle: ""
---

<p>Do you ever feel like you don’t know what to wear when attending a massage? You’re not alone. Going in for a massage can be an exciting experience, but figuring out the right outfit can be a bit daunting. Whether it’s your first or tenth time getting a massage, knowing what to wear is key to making the most of your session. In this article, we will discuss the types of clothing and footwear that should be worn during a massage session, as well as how to prepare for specialized massages such as pre-natal and <a data-wpil="url" data-wpil-url-old="aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc3luY3RoZXJhcHkuY2Evc2VydmljZXMvdmlzY2VyYWwtbWFuaXB1bGF0aW9uLXZpY3RvcmlhLw==" data-wpil="url" data-wpil-url-old="aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc3luY3RoZXJhcHkuY2Evc2VydmljZXMvdmlzY2VyYWwtbWFuaXB1bGF0aW9uLXZpY3RvcmlhLw==" data-wpil="url" data-wpil-url-old="aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc3luY3RoZXJhcHkuY2Evc2VydmljZXMvdmlzY2VyYWwtbWFuaXB1bGF0aW9uLXZpY3RvcmlhLw==" data-wpil="url" data-wpil-url-old="aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc3luY3RoZXJhcHkuY2Evc2VydmljZXMvdmlzY2VyYWwtbWFuaXB1bGF0aW9uLXZpY3RvcmlhLw==" data-wpil="url" data-wpil-url-old="aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc3luY3RoZXJhcHkuY2Evc2VydmljZXMvdmlzY2VyYWwtbWFuaXB1bGF0aW9uLXZpY3RvcmlhLw==" data-wpil="url" data-wpil-url-old="aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuc3luY3RoZXJhcHkuY2Evc2VydmljZXMvdmlzY2VyYWwtbWFuaXB1bGF0aW9uLXZpY3RvcmlhLw==" href="https://synctherapylocal.local/services/visceral-manipulation-victoria/">visceral massages</a> . So don’t worry – by the end of this article, you’ll have all the knowledge you need to know what to wear to a massage!<br><br><strong>Key Takeway: </strong> You can wear whatever you would like to your massage appointment. Most people choose to wear the bottoms of their underwear while getting a massage. You're welcome to whatever you're comfortable in however. We provide<strong> massage therapy in Victoria </strong> if you're interested in booking an appointment with us.</p>
<h2>What to Expect at a Massage Session</h2>
When it comes to your massage session, there are a few things you should expect. Upon arrival, you may be asked to fill out an intake form and discuss any health concerns or special needs with the registered massage therapist (RMT).<br><br>It is important to provide accurate information so that the RMT can tailor the massage according to your individual needs.<br><br>During the massage, the RMT will use a variety of techniques such as kneading, rolling, tapping, and stretching in order to relieve tension and promote relaxation.<br><br>Depending on your particular concerns, the RMT may also use hot or cold compresses. You should feel free to communicate with your RMT during the session about any discomfort or preferences for pressure.<br><br>After the session is over, you may be given some advice on self-care practices that you can use at home to further maintain your wellbeing.<br><br><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/chXFG1_c4PQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe><br>
<h3>Different Types of Massages</h3>
Massage therapy is a popular form of treatment that can be beneficial for many different types of ailments. Different types of massage offer varying levels of pressure and focus on specific areas to provide relief from muscle tension, stress, and pain.<br><br>Swedish massage is the most commonly used type of massage and consists of gentle kneading and long strokes to promote relaxation.<br><br>Deep tissue massage is more intense and focuses on releasing deep-seated knots in the muscles, while trigger point therapy involves applying direct pressure to points in the body where tension is concentrated.<br><br>Hot stone massage uses heated stones to relax muscles and improve circulation, while Shiatsu is a form of Japanese bodywork that combines acupressure with stretching techniques.<br><br>With so many different types of massages available, it's easy to find one that best suits your needs.<br>
<h2>General Massage Session Process</h2>
A general massage session typically begins with an assessment of the client’s needs. During this time the therapist will discuss any health concerns, areas of discomfort and desired outcomes.<br><br>After a few minutes, the massage itself can begin. Depending on the type of massage being performed, different techniques and pressure levels may be used to target specific areas or achieve relaxation throughout the body.<br><br>The therapist may use their hands, fists, elbows and forearms to knead and stroke the muscles in order to release tension and promote healing.<br><br>Once complete, many therapists will recommend follow-up sessions for ongoing care. A massage can be a great way to help manage stress and improve one’s overall well-being.<br><br>
<h2>What are you supposed to wear when you get a massage?</h2>
The clothing you wear during a massage is a personal choice, but there are some general guidelines to consider.<br><br>You can wear light, form-fitting clothes such as t-shirts, tank tops, shorts, or sports bras.<br><br>Alternatively, you can choose to wear loose-fitting clothing such as dresses, jumpsuits, or comfortable track pants.<br><br>Some people prefer to receive a massage fully clothed, while others prefer to remove all clothing. It is best to wear something comfortable and stretchy on the legs, such as leggings or joggers, and avoid heavy fabrics such as denim or wool.<br><br>Ultimately, the choice is yours, but it is important to consider the limitations placed on your massage therapist.<br><br> If you're seeking massage therapy as part of your back pain treatment options in Victoria, it's essential to communicate your preferences and concerns to your therapist. They can help guide you on what clothing may be most appropriate for the type of treatment you'll receive. Remember, comfort is key to ensuring a relaxing and effective session that addresses your specific needs.
<h3>How do I prepare for my first massage?</h3>
Preparing for your first massage can help you feel more comfortable and relaxed during the session.<br><br>Before the massage, it is important to communicate honestly and accurately with the massage therapist, informing them of any allergies, injuries, or areas of concern.<br><br>It is also recommended to use the bathroom beforehand to avoid any discomfort during the massage.<br><br>In terms of clothing, most massages require you to undress, but you will be covered with sheets and towels during the session.<br><br>It is important to wear comfortable clothing that is easy to remove and put back on, such as loose-fitting clothing or athletic wear.<br><br>Staying hydrated before the massage can also help eliminate toxins released during the massage.It is also recommended to avoid eating a heavy meal before the massage, as this can cause discomfort during the session.<br><br>If you have any questions or concerns, do not hesitate to ask the massage therapist before the session begins. Remember to relax and enjoy the experience, as the massage therapist's sole focus is ensuring your first massage is as enjoyable and beneficial as possible.<br><br>The majority of my clients who get massage choose to wear the bottoms of their underwear, exposing their upper back and legs. Its important to choose what you're comfortable with and communicate that with your RMT.<br><br><br><br>Do you wear anything for a full body massage?<br><br><br><br>You can uncloth to your underwear bottoms or fully naked for a full body massage. It's whatever you're comfort level is.<br><br>The clothing you wear during a full-body massage is a personal choice, but there are some general guidelines to consider.<br><br>It is possible to receive a massage fully clothed, and your massage therapist can perform your massage service regardless of attire.<br><br>Some people prefer to wear loose, comfortable clothing such as yoga pants and a T-shirt, while others may prefer to wear fewer clothes, especially if they want to experience the full benefits of the massage.<br><br>If you choose to undress, your massage therapist will tell you to undress to your comfort level, which can mean either staying fully clothed, remaining partially clothed, or undressing completely.<br><br>It is best to wear light, form-fitting clothes such as t-shirts, tank tops, shorts, or sports bras, or comfortable undies and loose-fitting t-shirts<br><br>
<h3>What should you not do before a massage?</h3>
To get the most out of a massage therapy session, there are some things you should avoid doing before your appointment.<br><br>Firstly, you should not drink alcohol before your massage. Alcohol can dehydrate you and make it harder for your muscles to relax during the massage.<br><br>Secondly, you should avoid sunbathing before your massage. Sunburned skin can be sensitive and painful to the touch, making the massage uncomfortable.<br><br>Thirdly, you should not come in sick. This is especially important in the post-COVID-19 era. If you are feeling unwell, it is best to reschedule your appointment to avoid spreading germs to your massage therapist and other clients.<br><br>Fourthly, you should not apply lotions, oils, or topical medications before your massage. These products can make it difficult for the massage therapist to manipulate your muscles and can leave a residue on the massage table.<br><br>Lastly, you should avoid over-grooming before your massage. This includes shaving, waxing, or getting a pedicure.<br><br>These activities can leave your skin sensitive and irritated, making the massage uncomfortable. Instead, it is best to arrive at your massage appointment with clean, dry skin and comfortable clothing.<br><br>
<h2>Types of Clothing to Wear During a Massage</h2>
<p>For most types of massage therapy, it is recommended to wear loose and comfortable clothing that allows your therapist access to the parts of your body they are working on.<br><br>When deciding what to wear to a massage, it's important to consider the type of massage you'll be receiving.<br><br>Depending on the type of massage, you may also want to bring shorts or an extra shirt for easier access.<br><br>For example, for deep tissue massages, wearing shorts can make it easier for your therapist to target specific muscles in your legs and torso.<br><br>Additionally, if you're receiving a hot stone massage or any other type of spa treatment that involves oils or lotions, you should bring a robe or towel so that you don't leave with oil stains on your clothes.<br><br>Following these guidelines will help ensure that your experience is as relaxing and enjoyable as possible! </p>
<h3>Loose Clothing</h3>
Loose clothing is an essential part of any massage therapy session. When dressing for a massage, it's best to wear loose-fitting, comfortable clothes that can be easily moved around and won't restrict your range of motion.<br><br>This will allow your therapist to easily access the areas they need to work on and provide you with the most effective and comfortable treatment possible.<br><br>Additionally, wearing looser clothing can help you feel more relaxed during your session as it allows for better air circulation and prevents any constricting or rubbing against your skin.<br><br>While there is no one “right” piece of clothing to wear during a massage, keep in mind that loose fitting clothes are always best.<br><br>
<h3>Breathable Fabrics</h3>
Breathable fabrics are a must when it comes to getting a massage. Breathable fabrics such as cotton, linen, and bamboo allow air to pass freely through them, which helps keep your skin cool and comfortable during your session.<br><br>Wearing breathable fabrics can help reduce the chance of irritation as they won't rub against your skin in the same way that more constricting materials would.<br><br>By wearing fabrics that breathe well you can ensure both comfort and relaxation during your massage experience. Consider wearing a loose-fitting t-shirt or tank top made from one of these breathable materials for maximum comfort and ease of movement during your session.<br><br> Additionally, breathable fabrics can enhance the overall experience of a Swedish relaxation massage by allowing for better skin contact, which is crucial for the efficacy of the techniques used. Embracing these materials not only promotes comfort but also allows you to fully enjoy the <a href="https://synctherapylocal.local/services/swedish-relaxation-massage-victoria/">Swedish relaxation massage benefits</a>, such as improved circulation and reduced muscle tension. Ultimately, choosing the right attire can significantly contribute to the overall effectiveness of your massage therapy.
<h3>Layering and Temperature Control</h3>
<p>Layering is an important factor for ensuring comfort and relaxation during your massage. Layering clothing can help you control your body temperature, as it allows you to adjust your level of coverage depending on how warm or cold you are feeling.<br><br>Light layers such as a tank top and light cardigan are great for those who tend to become chilly easily, while heavier layers like a hoodie and leggings may be more suitable for those who often overheat. It's also a good idea to have something extra available just in case you start to feel too cold or too hot during the session.<br><br>By layering appropriately, you can ensure that your body temperature stays comfortable throughout the massage experience.</p>
<h3>Massage-appropriate Undergarments</h3>
When it comes to massage, wearing the appropriate undergarments can be just as important as the layers you choose to wear on top.<br><br>Avoid restrictive clothing such as bras with underwire or tight-fitting underwear, which can limit your range of motion and cause discomfort during your session. Loose-fitting lingerie, boxers or briefs, or even a bikini bottom are all suitable options for massage-appropriate undergarments.<br><br>It's also important to consider using a towel between yourself and the massage table if you're not wearing any bottoms, to avoid direct contact with the massage surface.<br><br>Ultimately, it's best to wear something that will allow you to move freely while still providing enough coverage and support.<br><br>
<h3>Underwear Considerations</h3>
About 90% of our clients choose to keep the bottoms of their underwear on while getting a massage.<br><br>We have had clients who keep their clothes on during massage or choose to be fully naked.<br><br>There are no private parts showing during a massage and you will be draped accordingly to the area that is being worked out. For example, we would expose the thigh while wrapping the sheet under leg and securing the top portion of the sheet to the hip.<br><br>
<h3>Sports Bras for Women</h3>
When it comes to women's massage attire, wearing a supportive sports bra is essential. Sports bras provide additional support and comfort not found in traditional bras, making them ideal for receiving a massage. The snug fit of the fabric against your body helps to keep you secure during any movement or stretching that may take place during your session. Additionally, many sports bras are made with breathable materials that allow your skin to stay cool and dry throughout the entire appointment. Choose a style with adjustable straps and closures for an even more customized fit. With all these features, a sports bra is the perfect choice for any woman looking to get the most out of her next massage appointment with her RMT.<br><br>
<h3>Footwear for Massage Sessions</h3>
When it comes to having a massage, comfort and relaxation are key. Footwear plays an important role in both of these aspects.<br><br>Whether you're getting a massage at a spa or from your registered massage therapist (RMT), you should always wear comfortable shoes that provide adequate support for your feet.<br><br>The best footwear for a massage session is something lightweight and breathable like sandals or slip-on shoes. These types of shoes are easy to take on and off and provide the perfect amount of cushioning for your feet during your massage appointment.<br><br>Avoid wearing anything with laces, as this can get in the way of the massage therapist's movements.<br><br>If you're getting a full body massage, you may want to bring an extra pair of socks so that your feet stay warm while they are being worked on. With the right footwear, you can ensure that your next massage session is as relaxing as possible.<br><br>
<h3>Socks or Barefoot</h3>
When it comes to getting a massage, the decision of whether to wear socks or go barefoot is a personal one. Going barefoot can give you a sense of freedom and connection with the massage table, while wearing socks can provide additional warmth and comfort.<br><br>If you decide to go barefoot, make sure your feet are clean prior to your appointment so that they don't leave any dirt or oils on the therapist's sheets.<br><br>If you do choose to wear socks, stick with thin, lightweight socks like those made out of cotton or bamboo material. These will be less likely to interfere with the therapist's movements and won't cause extra heat build-up in your feet during the session.<br><br>Whichever option you choose, make sure that your decision is based on what makes you feel most comfortable and relaxed during your massage appointment.<br><br>
<h3>Slip-on Shoes</h3>
Slip-on shoes are often preferred by massage therapists since they don't require any extra laces or straps to be taken off and put back on throughout the session.<br><br>This can help keep the massage area organized and free from clutter, which is especially important when working around sensitive areas like feet and legs.<br><br>Look for slip-on shoes with breathable material that won’t cause your feet to overheat during the session. Make sure your chosen pair fits properly; if it’s too loose, you may find yourself accidentally slipping out of them during certain movements.<br><br>If you have a favorite pair of open-toed sandals or flip-flops, these can also be worn during a massage as long as they fit securely on your feet and don’t require too much adjusting while in use.<br><br>
<h2>Preparing for Specialized Massages</h2>
Knowing what to wear for specialized massage treatments is important. Depending on the type of massage you're receiving, there are certain clothing items that will be more suitable for the treatment than others.<br><br>For example, if you're getting a deep tissue massage, it's best to dress in loose-fitting clothing that won't restrict movement.<br><br>Avoid tight jeans or anything that may limit the range of motion during your session. On the other hand, if you're getting a hot stone massage, it’s important to wear something lighter and cooler so as not to overheat while lying on the stones.<br><br>Make sure you bring along a towel or two so your Registered Massage Therapist (RMT) can use one for draping and another for wiping away any excess oil during your treatment.<br><br>Properly preparing for a specialized massage can help ensure your comfort and satisfaction throughout the session.<br><br>
<h3>Visceral Massage</h3>
Visceral massage is a specialized form of bodywork that focuses on releasing tension in the organs, tissues and surrounding structures of the body. It is intended to restore balance and promote healing by encouraging the proper functioning of the internal organs.<br><br>During a session, your Registered Massage Therapist (RMT) will use gentle manipulation techniques to relax areas of tension and improve mobility in your abdominal area.<br><br>To ensure your comfort, it's best to wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothing during your treatment because you'll be fully clothed during this.<br><br>This will allow you to move freely while receiving the massage and help protect any sensitive areas that may be exposed.<br><br>Additionally, it's important to drink plenty of water before and after your session to help flush out toxins released during treatment. Visceral massage can be a powerful tool for improving health and wellbeing - so make sure you prepare properly before starting your sessions!<br><br>
<h3>Prenatal Massage</h3>
Prenatal massage is a specialized type of massage therapy that focuses on the unique needs of expecting mothers. It is designed to promote relaxation, reduce stress, and provide relief from aches and pains associated with pregnancy.<br><br>During a session, your Registered Massage Therapist (RMT) will use gentle manipulation techniques to help ease discomforts such as lower back pain , headaches, sciatica, and swelling.<br><br>To ensure your comfort during the massage it's important to wear comfortable clothing that allows you to move freely while receiving treatment.<br><br>Additionally, make sure to hydrate before and after the massage in order to flush out any toxins released during treatment.<br><br>Prenatal massage can be a great way for expecting mothers to relax and help soothe their growing baby bump - so be sure to prepare properly before starting your sessions!<br><br>